---
title: Goals
author: Austin
---

Everytime I sit down and set goals for myself, I end up making these grandiose plans that I expect myself to strictly follow for whatever time period, then I get upset whenever I enevitably fail. The only new years resolution I've ever actually completed was 2 or 3 years ago, where I made the promise that I would read a book every week, or at least 52 books by the time the year was over. I read about 60, although a lot of those were very short books and I think I even counted one or two short Asimov stories. I felt extremely accomplished, but ever since I don't think I've completed any sort of major personal resolution. 

Recently, I feel like I've been able to identify several holes in my technical knowledge and I believe that I've come up with decent ways to fill in those holes. Specifically, in school, I've tended to avoid low level programming classes, mostly opting to take theory or higher level programming classes (python, java). To alleviate those deficiencies, I've gone ahead and signed up for Operating Systems, Compilers, and an ECE Embedded Systems class next semester. I'm not sure how difficult the workload will be, but I'm sure those classes will help fill in my knowledge gaps. 

This summer, my main goal will be to read through [Competitive Programming](http://cpbook.net/) by Steven and Felix Halim. I plan on reading through each chapter, doing every exercise on UVA, and if necessary, reading through the related material in other textbooks (Kleinberg/Tardos, CLRS) You can view my progress [here](http://uhunt.felix-halim.net/id/258637). I might embed something on the front page of this blog, indicating how many problems I have completed so far. I'm currently at 7 solved problems, and the authors claim towards the beginning of the book that students in their classes will do roughly 400 in the four month class. I'll be shooting for around 500. I will also be trying to update my blog with my progress.

$$ 5 + 5 + \sum{z=k}(5 + 4 + 3)$$
